We have already seen that how we can set up this project for online quiz project for JSP.
So it's very simple.
You have to just create a web project inside your ID with the Java EA version, Enterprise Edition version.
I'm going to use your Oracle database glasses server for all database connections, then deployment
on the server.
So before proceeding, I'm going to tell some important part regarding to this.
So what I created, I changed the indexed HTML for the loading page, loading landing page.
I will add also your.
Landing.
Each.
So this is our landing page.
I also added some bootstrap CSS and then some images here already and I change this part.
So as you can see for admin admin log in JSP, we have to create any student log in.
So in this session we are going to see how we can do this.
So this is very simple HTML and just added bootstrap cases.
You can see when things are created here in websites and everything, you can see your source packages
then all things libraries.
Also I added some and all things related to this part.
So this is all about how we can create index rotation or how we can set up our project.
But before proceeding with our project, I'm going to specify some simple Java servlet concepts and
some JSP concepts also.
So let us see what is the Java servlet?
So Java servlet is nothing but a technology in Java which used to create a web application.
So servlet is a Java API.
Which is application programming interface basically, which provides many interfaces and classes,
including with the documentation part and everything.
So, so documentation is already written.
So what is the Java servlet?
So you have written the HTML code and you want to put the data from that database means you have to
put HTML form data or your anything on the front end part to back end or you have to part to the server.
So for writing the logic behind this, we are going to use your Java servlet.
So servlet is an interface must be implemented for creating any servlet.
And servlet is also class which extends the capabilities of the servers which respond requests.
So you can see we already server is running on the request and response types.
Similarly, servlet helps server to improve this regarding like databases and HTML part.
So so it is a web component that deployed on the server, not on your client machine.
It is deployed on the server part to create dynamic web pages.
So what is the static and dynamic page is?
Static means we are watching some part and it's static.
There is nothing is changing.
Or you can see the table is not showing contents again and again.
It's not updating.
So it's static.
Like you have created one university information page.
It is static.
You are showing the information page, it's static.
But if you want to add some part in that information using not using only HTML code, you have to use
some simple text editor or I can say on the website itself, you have to write.
You are going to say it is a dynamic web pages.
It's updating.
So it's dynamic Web pages.
So how so?
It works, actually.
So, so well.
It works on request and response.
Client sends response to server and server response generated and it's moved to the client.
So it's just like a copy of that part and sent to the client.
So.
So let's use this request.
DISPATCHER.
So the.
DISPATCHER The interface provides the facility of dispatching the request from another source HTML so
that our GSP.
So what is the GSP basically?
JSP is the Java servlet pages as you can see.
So so JSP contains all the things in further part.
I'm going to show the servlet and GSP board also, but before that, what is the difference between
servlet and GSP is.
So let's are pure java codes.
There is nothing inside this.
Like you can add HTML codes without that part, but GCP and servlet are both different.
So.
So that is just for connection.
But more than just JSP, you can visualize, you can create design also using CSS and statement.
So this is an interface also used to include contents from another resources.
So it's a one way also collaboration.
Or you can say there are two methods forward and include forward to forward request from so let to another
resource or includes the content of resource like you have to add into the same resource you have to
use include method or you want to forward it to something you have to use forward method.
Then as I told you, forward for forward method request is generated.
It's sent to servlet one created the response forwarding method or servlet two I can say or I can say
JSP or anything generates another response and send to the client.
Similarly for the include method what is done it's again so let's do our created two.
So let's architected or I can say to which HTML are created or to estimate statements we can create
which includes in the same page responses, generate same responses and send to the client.
So so that important parts are estimates such as front end.
Also program for back end logical method.
We brought XML for control.
That's it for the servlet.
Important parts.
So as you can, if you have seen the servlet codes, you can see its HTML is added inside Java as it
is added inside Java.
In GSP.
What is we are going to.
It's a java language inside the HTML pages.
So you can see it's like a scripting language, but it's your Java language.
So Java solid pages.
So JSP is technology is used to create a web application just like servlet technology.
But what is the difference between these are so let's are only Java codes with JSP as HTML codes which
contains some Java language so it can be taught of extension of servlet, you can say, but it provides
more functionality than solid, such as some expression languages.
GSD There are some gestural technology also you can use.
So JSP page contains HTML tags, some JSP tags.
Also JSP pages are easier to maintain.
You have to always remember these are very easier to maintain.
You no need to check for every step again and again in JSP and its provide some additional features
like expression, language and custom text.
So let us see how we can create JSP page inside our IDE.
So this is my idea I already created.
So.
So source package contains all the java packages.
But before that in go to the web pages.
You're just right click here, click in new and you can see JSP.
JSP.
Hope you can see the G-spot here.
Once you right click here, click new and GSP.
Click here.
You can see all the entity Glasson but choose GSP part, so specify the name for this once that another
dialog box is basically created when you are doing this.
So for me, let me close this and let me check what is I'm going to do.
Okay.
I'm going to copy this part basically, because my name is this.
Once this is done, you have to put this on Web pages, standards and things will just be you have to
choose nothing.
Or then click finish.
So it will take time to create one JSP page.
As you can see, JSP page is created.
Let me cancel this because.
And.
Okay.
So this is our JSP page.
Let us post build our project.
Let us see how it's clean and build first.
Then I'm going to change here because I want to create some log in form.
We can say I want to create here.
So let us first clean and build.
If your window is matching output windows and ordering, go to this and click output.
You can see be successful.
Now let us run our project.
So it will take time to load the glass feed server first time when you are entering the first time because
Java Hotspot Server VM is running.
So it takes time to load that server and deploy all the pages on that server.
But once it is done, no need to again and again executing this in the JSP as we are doing in a Java
servlet, we have to again and again build that part.
No need to build that part again and again in JSP.
As I'm telling just one time, build and just you have to add your code.
Then after all things are done, just click Final Run and again check.
So as you can see, it's taking time to load.
So as you can see, all things are deploying.
So once it is done, you can see our portal is deployed.
You may face the delay of this loading because what I am using these images using through URL and URL
and I'm also adding some services.
So we already created this student page.
So when you click this, you can see the JSP page is loaded here.
Helloworld, which I had, which we already created here.
As you can see.
So this is our JSP page we already created.
So I'm going to change the code here and I'm going to explain also that part.
So remember, JSP is sometimes slower than Java servlet, but as you can see, we can add some exciting
animations and things inside JSP as we have some power to change all HTML codes using JSP.
So let us see how I'm going to change this part.
So let me.
Delete this first.
And.
And this is for comment part only.
So I'm just.
Due to time constraint, I'm going to just use.
First I made a call and in another file.
So I will explain that code.
But due to time constraint, I'm not going to print.
It's very taking time, taking part.
So as you can see, it's HTML.
These are the HTML codes only.
Let me save this part.
So these are the codes only.
This is bootstrap CSS.
I'm adding in everything because for that purpose I told you for UI purpose.
Then this is all about the CSS thing over this with student login.
So.
What is this, this body tag?
And with this what I'm going to it's going to request dot to get parameter for the message part it's
showing the rate and this in the grid so this is all about the part for your username is invalid, your
username is valid.
So after this part is done, I'm going to specify a message later to put this part.
So important part is this actually this is form action.
This is validated students and what is this is so I'm going to create that part with validated student.
So this action just I'm specifying this controller and everything, but I'm going to change that part
because for previous purpose I just created this, but later I will change that also.
So validate student and all things here you can change as your requirement.
So this is all about this and this is the location basically.
Now what is the location area which is basically on click event?
Or to exit that part.
So let us see what is deployed now.
Or let me open the door and click reload.
So let us go to the login page here.
So as you can see, our student login is done when I once I click exit.
What is happening?
It's going into the first page only.
Now let us log in again.
So it's not created for the page here.
So if you put name your this, it will show your user ID and password.
So this is all about the student logging in for their videos.
I'm going to tell you the JSP basics then how we can create administrative page also and some more information
about JSP.
And once JSP is done, I'm going to use some Java code also to validate, as you can see here, I'm
using directly this valid student.
So I have to use some methods value students and things to.
Create and validate that part also.